Routes entity page, router expressions, proxying (#168)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/dynamically-rewrite-simple-request-urls-with-routes.md

---

> title: Dynamically rewrite simple request URLs with {{site.base_gateway}} Routes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Rewrite simple request URLs with {{site.base_gateway}} Routes
```

There is nothing dynamic happening here.

content_type: how_to
related_resources:
  - text: Routes
    url: /gateway/entities/route/
  - text: Services
    url: /gateway/entities/service/
  - text: Routing in {{site.base_gateway}}
    url: /gateway/routing/
  - text: Expressions router
    url: /gateway/routing/expressions/

products:
    - gateway

works_on:
    - on-prem
    - konnect

tools:
    - deck

prereqs:
  entities:
    services:
        - example-service
    routes:
        - example-route

entities:
  - service
  - route

tags:
  - routing
  - traffic-control

tldr:
  q: How can I divert traffic from an old URL to a new one with {{site.base_gateway}}?

>   a: Set up a Gateway Service with the old URL path and create a new a Route with new path.For example, your legacy upstream endpoint may have a base URI like `/api/old/`. However, you want your publicly accessible API endpoint to now be named `/new/api`. To route the Service’s upstream endpoint to the new URL, you can set up a Service with the path `/api/old/` and a Route with the path `/new/api`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  a: Create a new route and point it to the existing Gateway Service. The new route will proxy traffic to the existing service at the new URL.
```

>   a: Set up a Gateway Service with the old URL path and create a new a Route with new path.For example, your legacy upstream endpoint may have a base URI like `/api/old/`. However, you want your publicly accessible API endpoint to now be named `/new/api`. To route the Service’s upstream endpoint to the new URL, you can set up a Service with the path `/api/old/` and a Route with the path `/new/api`.

Reviewer: I thinjk the /api/new and /api/old are good examples of what you are trying to do but because the deck file and steps dont reflect that I got thrown off. I think that the api/old and api/new can be illustrated through the steps better than as the answer int he tld;r

faqs:
  - q: My URLs are more complex, such as replacing `/api/<function>/old` with `/new/api/<function>`, what should I use instead to rewrite them?

>     a: You can use the [Request Transformer plugin](/hub/request-transformer/) for a complex URL rewrite or the [expressions router](/gateway/routing/expressions/) ({{site.base_gateway}} 3.0.x or later) to describe Routes or paths as patterns using regular expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a: You can use either the [Request Transformer plugin](/hub/request-transformer/) or the [expressions router](/gateway/routing/expressions/) for complex URLs. 
```

cleanup:
  inline:
    - title: Clean up Konnect environment
      include_content: cleanup/platform/konnect
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg
    - title: Destroy the {{site.base_gateway}} container
      include_content: cleanup/products/gateway
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg
---

> ## 1. Set up a Service with the path to the old Upstream

Reviewer: In retrospect, its not helpful, I just needed to see the deck file to see what was going on.

In the prerequisites, you created the `example-service` and `example-route` with the `/anything` path. This path, `/anything`, is your old upstream path. You must modify your existing Service to contain the old `/anything` path. By doing it this way, traffic can continue to be routed to the old path while you enable the new path.

{% entity_examples %}
entities:

>   services:
>     - name: example-service
>       url: http://httpbin.konghq.com/anything
>       path: /anything

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  services:
    - name: example-service
      url: http://httpbin.konghq.com/anything
```

If I understand what you are trying to do, you dont need the path line here its already in the URL

append_to_existing_section: true
{% endentity_examples %}

<!--figure out apphending-->

## 2. Set up a Route with the path to the new Upstream

Now you can create a Route with your new path, `/new-path`, that points to the new Upstream.

> 

Reviewer: This adds a second route and associates it to the service. So by this point you have: 
1 service pointing to the upstream url `http://httpbin.konghq.com/anything`
2. routes proxying to it, one at /anything, and one at /new-path. 
3. And an optional stray route from the prereq

Reviewer: sorry, i left this undone, you should remove the original /anything route

Author: I've removed the original route.

{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  routes:
    - name: new-route
      paths:
      - "/new-path"
      service:
        name: example-service
append_to_existing_section: true
{% endentity_examples %}

## 3. Apply configuration

{% include how-tos/steps/apply_config.md %}

## 4. Validate

To validate that the URL was successfully rewritten and the request is now being matched to the new Upstream instead of the old one, run the following:

```bash

> curl -i http://localhost:8000/new-path

Reviewer: I think a better test would be seeing what URL you are getting from the old path, and from the new one.

Author: @Guaris I like this idea. I think the idea is that traffic is routed away from the old path to the new one, like a redirect (let me know if this is wrong), so if you go to the old path, should it redirect you to the new path?

Author: @Guaris I think this is working correctly with `http://localhost:8000/new-path` as this is the response I get:

```

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 486
Connection: keep-alive
Server: gunicorn/19.9.0
Date: Wed, 18 Dec 2024 21:14:18 GMT
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Credentials: true
X-Kong-Upstream-Latency: 352
X-Kong-Proxy-Latency: 488
Via: 1.1 kong/3.9.0.0-enterprise-edition
X-Kong-Request-Id: 0bfd8c4c54274e4ffbbfcd2c5c939c65

{
  "args": {}, 
  "data": "", 
  "files": {}, 
  "form": {}, 
  "headers": {
    "Accept": "*/*", 
    "Connection": "keep-alive", 
    "Host": "httpbin.konghq.com", 
    "User-Agent": "curl/8.4.0", 
    "X-Forwarded-Host": "localhost", 
    "X-Forwarded-Path": "/new-path", 
    "X-Forwarded-Prefix": "/new-path", 
    "X-Kong-Request-Id": "0bfd8c4c54274e4ffbbfcd2c5c939c65"
  }, 
  "json": null, 
  "method": "GET", 
  "origin": "172.27.0.1", 
  "url": "http://localhost/anything"
}

```

```
{: data-deployment-topology="on-prem" }

```bash
curl -i http://{host}/new-path
```
{: data-deployment-topology="konnect" }
Replace `{host}` with the proxy URL for this data plane node.
{: data-deployment-topology="konnect" }

> This command should display a 200 status as you're redirected to the new URL.

Author: For reviewers: This did work for me, I think, but I'm unsure if this how to was configured to do the right thing or not. I extrapolated the info from https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/key-concepts/routes/#dynamically-rewrite-request-urls-with-routes, but I'm not sure if I did it correctly.
